docs/source/examples/gui/markdown.rst, before:

Markdown support
================

Display rich text content with markdown support.

Display rich text content with markdown support in GUI panels.

**Features:**

* :meth:`viser.GuiApi.add_markdown` for markdown content
* :meth:`viser.GuiApi.add_html` for raw HTML content
* :meth:`viser.GuiApi.add_image` for displaying images
* Dynamic content updates and relative image paths

**Source:** ``examples/02_gui/03_markdown.py``

.. figure:: ../../_static/examples/02_gui_03_markdown.png
   :width: 100%
   :alt: Markdown support

Code
----

.. code-block:: python
   :linenos:

   import time
   from pathlib import Path
   
   import viser
   
   server = viser.ViserServer()
   server.scene.world_axes.visible = True
   
   markdown_counter = server.gui.add_markdown("Counter: 0")
   
   here = Path(__file__).absolute().parent
   
   button = server.gui.add_button("Remove blurb")
   checkbox = server.gui.add_checkbox("Visibility", initial_value=True)
   
   markdown_source = (here / "../assets/mdx_example.mdx").read_text()
   markdown_blurb = server.gui.add_markdown(
       content=markdown_source,
       image_root=here,
   )
   
   
   @button.on_click
   def _(_):
       markdown_blurb.remove()
   
   
   @checkbox.on_update
   def _(_):
       markdown_blurb.visible = checkbox.value
   
   
   counter = 0
   while True:
       markdown_counter.content = f"Counter: {counter}"
       counter += 1
       time.sleep(0.1)

Commit message:

Update docs, examples, asset download script

docs/source/examples/gui/markdown.rst, after:

Markdown support
================

Display rich text content with markdown support.

Display rich text content with markdown support in GUI panels.

**Features:**

* :meth:`viser.GuiApi.add_markdown` for markdown content
* :meth:`viser.GuiApi.add_html` for raw HTML content
* :meth:`viser.GuiApi.add_image` for displaying images
* Dynamic content updates and relative image paths

**Source:** ``examples/02_gui/03_markdown.py``

.. figure:: ../../_static/examples/02_gui_03_markdown.png
   :width: 100%
   :alt: Markdown support

Code
----

.. code-block:: python
   :linenos:

   import time
   from pathlib import Path
   
   import viser
   
   server = viser.ViserServer()
   server.scene.world_axes.visible = True
   
   markdown_counter = server.gui.add_markdown("Counter: 0")
   
   here = Path(__file__).absolute().parent
   
   button = server.gui.add_button("Remove blurb")
   checkbox = server.gui.add_checkbox("Visibility", initial_value=True)
   
   markdown_source = """
   Viser has full support for the GFM markdown spec, including **bold**, _italics_,
   ~~strikethrough~~, and many other features.
   
   Here's a [masked link](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/viser), and a
   normal one: https://pypi.org/project/viser/
   
   In inline code blocks, you can show off colors with color chips: `#FED363`
   `hsl(0, 0%, 82%)` `rgb(255, 255, 255)`
