examples/assets/mdx_example.mdx, before:

## Markdown in Viser

---

Viser has full support for the GFM markdown spec, including **bold**, _italics_, ~~strikethrough~~, and many other features.

Here's a [masked link](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/viser). Not a fan? Here's a normal one: https://pypi.org/project/viser/

Anywhere where you can insert GUI elements, you can also insert `images`, `blockquotes`, `lists`, `tables`, `task lists`, and `(unstyled) code blocks`.

In inline code blocks, you can show off colors with color chips: `#FED363` `hsl(0, 0%, 82%)` `rgb(255, 255, 255)`

Adding images from a remote origin is simple. For remote images, you must specify the image in the `images` prop of markdown, and then reference it
in your markdown as follows:

<section>
  ![Viser Logo](http://nerfstudio-project.github.io/viser/_static/viser.svg)
  ![Cal Logo](cal_logo)
</section>

Tables follow the standard markdown spec:

| Application                                          | Description                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| [Nerfstudio](https://nerf.studio)                    | A collaboration friendly studio for NeRFs          |
| [Viser](https://nerfstudio-project.github.io/viser/) | An interactive 3D visualization toolbox for Python |

Code blocks, while being not nearly as exciting as some of the things presented, work as expected. Currently, while you can specify a language and metadata
in your blocks, they will remain unused by the Markdown renderer.

```python
"""Markdown Demonstration

Viser GUI has MDX 2 support (WIP)
"""

import time
from pathlib import Path

import imageio.v3 as iio
import viser

server = viser.ViserServer()
server.world_axes.visible = True

with open("./assets/mdx_example.mdx", "r") as mkdn:
    markdown = server.add_gui_markdown(
        markdown=mkdn.read(),
        images={"cal_logo": iio.imread(Path(__file__).parent / "assets/Cal_logo.png")},
    )

button = server.add_gui_button("Remove Markdown")


@button.on_click
def _(_):
    markdown.remove()


while True:
    time.sleep(10.0)
```

_woah, that's meta_

The best part? MDX is extensible and JS capable. While we do not currently support any custom mantine components directly, going forward it could be
possible to configure your own layouts in JSX from directly within your markdown. For now, you still have the freedom to do things like this (although
there is no guarantee that styling will look good once you stray from the standard markdown spec):

<figure>
  <img
    src="cal_logo"
    alt="Cal Logo"
    style={{ width: "100%", height: "auto" }}
  />
  <figcaption style={{ textAlign: "center" }}>This is the Cal Logo</figcaption>
</figure>

Or this:

This page loaded on {(new Date()).toString()}

**Note**: Be careful when playing with JSX, it's very easy to break markdown.

So that's MDX in Viser. It has support for:

- [x] CommonMark and GFM standards
  - bold, italics, strikethrough, images, blockquotes, tables, task lists, code blocks, inline code
- [x] Color chips
- [x] JSX enhanced components
- [ ] Prism highlighted code blocks and code block tabs
- [ ] Exposed Mantine in markdown
- [ ] Ability to hide Markdown from Python instead of just deleting it

> Oh yes, mdx PR would be exciting
>
> <Cite> &#8212; Brent Yi </Cite>

Commit message:

Update interface to intake a image_root Path and replace relative paths in mdx
This gets around introducing custom syntax that isn't being processed by mdx

examples/assets/mdx_example.mdx, after:

## Markdown in Viser

---

Viser has full support for the GFM markdown spec, including **bold**, _italics_, ~~strikethrough~~, and many other features.

Here's a [masked link](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/viser). Not a fan? Here's a normal one: https://pypi.org/project/viser/

Anywhere where you can insert GUI elements, you can also insert `images`, `blockquotes`, `lists`, `tables`, `task lists`, and `(unstyled) code blocks`.

In inline code blocks, you can show off colors with color chips: `#FED363` `hsl(0, 0%, 82%)` `rgb(255, 255, 255)`

Adding images from a remote origin is simple. For remote images, you should specify a `image_root` that corresponds to the `Path` object that you'd like
your relative images to be scoped to when initializing your markdown. If no such `image_root` is provided, the file system will be scoped to the directory
that Viser is installed in.

<section>
  ![Viser Logo](http://nerfstudio-project.github.io/viser/_static/viser.svg)
  ![Cal Logo](../examples/assets/Cal_logo.png)
</section>

Tables follow the standard markdown spec:

| Application                                          | Description                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| [Nerfstudio](https://nerf.studio)                    | A collaboration friendly studio for NeRFs          |
| [Viser](https://nerfstudio-project.github.io/viser/) | An interactive 3D visualization toolbox for Python |

Code blocks, while being not nearly as exciting as some of the things presented, work as expected. Currently, while you can specify a language and metadata
in your blocks, they will remain unused by the Markdown renderer.

```python
"""Markdown Demonstration

Viser GUI has MDX 2 support (WIP)
"""

import time
from pathlib import Path

import viser

server = viser.ViserServer()
server.world_axes.visible = True


@server.on_client_connect
def _(client: viser.ClientHandle) -> None:
    with open("./assets/mdx_example.mdx", "r") as mkdn:
        markdown = client.add_gui_markdown(
            markdown=mkdn.read(), image_root=Path(__file__).parent
        )

    button = client.add_gui_button("Remove Markdown")

    @button.on_click
    def _(_):
        markdown.remove()


while True:
    time.sleep(10.0)
```

_woah, that's meta_

The best part? MDX is extensible and JS capable. While we do not currently support any custom mantine components directly, going forward it could be
possible to configure your own layouts in JSX from directly within your markdown. For now, you still have the freedom to do things like this (although
there is no guarantee that styling will look good once you stray from the standard markdown spec):

<figure>
  <img
    src="./assets/Cal_logo.png"
    alt="Cal Logo"
    style={{ width: "100%", height: "auto" }}
  />
  <figcaption style={{ textAlign: "center" }}>This is the Cal Logo</figcaption>
</figure>

Or this:

This page loaded on {(new Date()).toString()}

**Note**: Be careful when playing with JSX, it's very easy to break markdown.

So that's MDX in Viser. It has support for:

- [x] CommonMark and GFM standards
  - bold, italics, strikethrough, images, blockquotes, tables, task lists, code blocks, inline code
- [x] Color chips
- [x] JSX enhanced components
- [ ] Prism highlighted code blocks and code block tabs
- [ ] Exposed Mantine in markdown
- [ ] Ability to hide Markdown from Python instead of just deleting it

> Oh yes, mdx PR would be exciting
>
> <Cite> &#8212; Brent Yi </Cite>
