docs/source/development.md, before:

# Development

In this note, we outline current practices, tools, and workflows for `viser`
development. We assume that the repository is cloned to `~/viser`.

## Python install

We recommend an editable install for Python development, ideally in a virtual
environment (eg via conda).

```bash
# Install package.
cd ~/viser
pip install -e .

# Install example dependencies.
pip install -e .[examples]
```

After installation, any of the example scripts (`~/viser/examples`) should be
runnable. A few of them require downloading assets, which can be done via the
scripts in `~/viser/examples/assets`.

**Linting, formatting, type-checking.**

First, install developer tools:

```bash
# Using pip.
pip install -e .[dev]
pre-commit install
```

It would be hard to write unit tests for `viser`. We rely on static typing for
robustness. To check your code, you can run the following:

```bash
# runs linting, formatting, and type-checking
viser-dev-checks
```

## Message updates

The `viser` frontend and backend communicate via a shared set of message
definitions:

- On the server, these are defined as Python dataclasses in
  `~/viser/src/viser/_messages.py`.
- On the client, these are defined as TypeScript interfaces in
  `~/viser/src/viser/client/src/WebsocketMessages.tsx`.

Note that there is a 1:1 correspondence between the dataclasses message types
and the TypeScript ones.

The TypeScript definitions should not be manually modified. Instead, changes
should be made in Python and synchronized via the `sync_message_defs.py` script:

```
cd ~/viser
python sync_message_defs.py
```

## Client development

For client development, we can start by launching a relevant Python script. The
examples are a good place to start:

```
cd ~/viser/examples
python 05_camera_commands.py
```

When a `viser` script is launched, two URLs will be printed:

- An HTTP URL, like `http://localhost:8080`, which can be used to open a
  _pre-built_ version of the React frontend.
- A websocket URL, like `ws://localhost:8080`, which client applications can
  connect to.

If changes to the client source files are detected on startup, `viser` will
re-build the client automatically. This is okay for quick changes, but for
faster iteration we can also launch a development version of the frontend, which
will reflect changes we make to the client source files
(`~/viser/src/viser/client/src`) without a full build. This requires a few more
steps.

**Installing dependencies.**

1. [Install nodejs.](https://nodejs.dev/en/download/package-manager)
2. [Install yarn.](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install)
3. Install dependencies.
   ```
   cd ~/viser/src/viser/client
   yarn install
   ```

**Launching client.**

To launch the client, we can run:

```
cd ~/viser/src/viser/client
yarn start
```

from the `viser/src/viser/client` directory. After opening the client in a web
browser, the websocket server address typically needs to be updated in the
"Server" tab.

**Formatting.**

We use [prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/install.html). This can be run via
one of:

- `prettier -w .`
- `npx prettier -w .`

from `~/viser/src/viser/client`.

Commit message:

Add `viser-build-client`, remove `viser-dev-checks`

docs/source/development.md, after:

# Development

In this note, we outline current practices, tools, and workflows for `viser`
development. We assume that the repository is cloned to `~/viser`.

## Python install

We recommend an editable install for Python development, ideally in a virtual
environment (eg via conda).

```bash
# Install package.
cd ~/viser
pip install -e .

# Install example dependencies.
pip install -e .[examples]
```

After installation, any of the example scripts (`~/viser/examples`) should be
runnable. A few of them require downloading assets, which can be done via the
scripts in `~/viser/examples/assets`.

**Linting, formatting, type-checking.**

First, install developer tools:

```bash
# Using pip.
pip install -e .[dev]
pre-commit install
```

For code quality, rely primarily on `pyright` and `ruff`:

```bash
# Check static types.
pyright

# Lint and format.
ruff check --fix .
ruff format .
```

## Message updates

The `viser` frontend and backend communicate via a shared set of message
definitions:

- On the server, these are defined as Python dataclasses in
  `~/viser/src/viser/_messages.py`.
- On the client, these are defined as TypeScript interfaces in
  `~/viser/src/viser/client/src/WebsocketMessages.tsx`.

Note that there is a 1:1 correspondence between the dataclasses message types
and the TypeScript ones.

The TypeScript definitions should not be manually modified. Instead, changes
should be made in Python and synchronized via the `sync_message_defs.py` script:

```
cd ~/viser
python sync_message_defs.py
```

## Client development

For client development, we can start by launching a relevant Python script. The
examples are a good place to start:

```
cd ~/viser/examples
python 05_camera_commands.py
```

When a `viser` script is launched, two URLs will be printed:

- An HTTP URL, like `http://localhost:8080`, which can be used to open a
  _pre-built_ version of the React frontend.
- A websocket URL, like `ws://localhost:8080`, which client applications can
  connect to.

If changes to the client source files are detected on startup, `viser` will
re-build the client automatically. This is okay for quick changes, but for
faster iteration we can also launch a development version of the frontend, which
will reflect changes we make to the client source files
(`~/viser/src/viser/client/src`) without a full build. This requires a few more
steps.

**Installing dependencies.**

1. [Install nodejs.](https://nodejs.dev/en/download/package-manager)
2. [Install yarn.](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install)
3. Install dependencies.
   ```
   cd ~/viser/src/viser/client
   yarn install
   ```

**Launching client.**

To launch the client, we can run:

```
cd ~/viser/src/viser/client
yarn start
```

from the `viser/src/viser/client` directory. After opening the client in a web
browser, the websocket server address typically needs to be updated in the
"Server" tab.

**Formatting.**

We use [prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/install.html). This can be run via
one of:

- `prettier -w .`
- `npx prettier -w .`

from `~/viser/src/viser/client`.
