docs/source/scene_handles.md, before:

# Scene Handles

A handle is created for each object that is added to the scene. These can be
used to read and set state, as well as detect clicks.

When a scene node is added to a server (for example, via
:func:`viser.ViserServer.add_frame()`), state is synchronized between all
connected clients. When a scene node is added to a client (for example, via
:func:`viser.ClientHandle.add_frame()`), state is local to a specific client.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

.. autoclass:: viser.SceneNodeHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.CameraFrustumHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.FrameHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.BatchedAxesHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.GlbHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.Gui3dContainerHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.ImageHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.LabelHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.MeshHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.MeshSkinnedHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.MeshSkinnedBoneHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.PointCloudHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.TransformControlsHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.GaussianSplatHandle

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Commit message:

Scene tree refactor (#280)
* Message tag refactor

* Cleanup

* Fix skinned meshes

* Skinned mesh cleanup, fix world axes display

* Generate type guards

* Props refactor

* Docstrings

* Docstrings

* prettier

* Remove repeated

* Fix pyright

* Cleanup

* tsc

* prettier

* Fix 3D GUI containers

* nit

* Add more handles

docs/source/scene_handles.md, after:

# Scene Handles

A handle is created for each object that is added to the scene. These can be
used to read and set state, as well as detect clicks.

When a scene node is added to a server (for example, via
:func:`viser.ViserServer.add_frame()`), state is synchronized between all
connected clients. When a scene node is added to a client (for example, via
:func:`viser.ClientHandle.add_frame()`), state is local to a specific client.

The most common attributes to read and write here are
:attr:`viser.SceneNodeHandle.wxyz` and :attr:`viser.SceneNodeHandle.position`.
Each node type also has type-specific attributes that we can read and write.
Many of these are lower-level than their equivalent arguments in factory
methods like :func:`viser.ViserServer.add_frame()` or
:func:`viser.ViserServer.add_image()`.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

.. autoclass:: viser.SceneNodeHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.CameraFrustumHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.FrameHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.BatchedAxesHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.GlbHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.Gui3dContainerHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.ImageHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.LabelHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.MeshHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.MeshSkinnedHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.MeshSkinnedBoneHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.PointCloudHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.SplineCatmullRomHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.SplineCubicBezierHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.TransformControlsHandle

.. autoclass:: viser.GaussianSplatHandle

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
